DOCS-1111: Add virtualenv instructions for Python SDK (#1830)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/program/python-venv.md

For example, name your directory `viam-python`:

```bash
mkdir viam-python
cd viam-python
```

## Create and Activate a Virtual Environment

Now that you are in the project directory, create and activate a virtual environment for Python to run in.

```bash
python3 -m venv viam-env
source viam-env/bin/activate
```

Now, `(viam-env)` prepends the commands in your terminal window to indicate the Python packages being used are from this particular environment.
You can exit this environment by running `deactivate`.

## Install Viam

Inside the activated `viam-env` python environment, you can now install the Viam SDK:

```bash
pip3 install viam-sdk
```

This will install Viam and all required dependencies.

Should you need to install your own requirements, be sure to do so in this virtual environment.
If you have more requirements, you can [create a](https://openclassrooms.com/en/courses/6900846-set-up-a-python-environment/6990546-manage-virtual-environments-using-requirements-files) <file>requirements.txt</file> with all the packages you need and then install the requirements for your client application by running `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`.

## Setup your IDE

> You'll now want to point your IDE to use the python interpreter of your new environment, rather than the default interpreter, likely the global python interpreter.

Author: ```suggestion
Now, point your IDE to use the python interpreter of your new environment, rather than the default interpreter, likely the global python interpreter.
```

The following steps are for VS Code.
If you're not using VS Code, please read your IDE's documentation on selecting python interpreters.

1. Open the `viam-python` directory in VS Code
1. Open the Command Palette (using `⇧⌘P` or through the menus View -> Command Palette)
1. Select the command `Python: Select Interpreter`.
There, you should see all the interpreters available to you.
You're looking for the on you just made: `viam-env`.
It will look something like: `Python 3.XX.X ('viam-env': venv) ./viam-env/bin/python`.

> If you don't see it, click the `Refresh` icon on the top right of the Command Palette.

Author: ```suggestion
If you don't see it, click the `Refresh` icon on the top right of the Command Palette.
Select the `viam-env` interpreter.
```

---
title: "Prepare your Python Virtual Environment"
linkTitle: "Prepare your Python Virtualenv for Viam"
weight: 10
type: "docs"
description: "Prepare your Python Virtual Environment to program machines with the Python SDK."
images: ["/services/icons/sdk.svg"]
tags: ["client", "sdk", "application", "sdk", "fleet", "program", "python", "venv"]
---

To manage Python packages for your Viam application, it is recommended that you use a virtual environment, or `venv`.

> By using a `venv`, you can install Python packages like Viam's client SDK just within the virtual environment, and not globally, which could cause conflicts with other projects or cause issues within your system.

Author: Fine w me, done!

Follow this guide to set up a fresh virtual environment on your working computer and install the Python SDK as a requirement for your Viam client application.

## Setup your project

First, create a directory for your project.
For example, name your directory `viam-python`:

```sh {class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
mkdir viam-python
cd viam-python
```

## Create and Activate a Virtual Environment

Now that you are in the project directory, create and activate a virtual environment for Python to run in.

```bash
python3 -m venv viam-env
source viam-env/bin/activate
```

Now, `(viam-env)` prepends the commands in your terminal window to indicate the Python packages being used are from this particular environment.
You can exit this environment by running `deactivate`.

## Install Viam

Inside the activated `viam-env` python environment, you can now install the Viam SDK:

```bash
pip3 install viam-sdk
```

> This will install Viam and all required dependencies.

Author: Done, sorry for leaving it in

> Should you need to install your own requirements, be sure to do so in this virtual environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to install your own requirements, also install them in this virtual environment.
```

Author: Done

> If you have more requirements, you can [create a](https://openclassrooms.com/en/courses/6900846-set-up-a-python-environment/6990546-manage-virtual-environments-using-requirements-files) <file>requirements.txt</file> with all the packages you need and then install the requirements for your client application by running `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make your required packages easier to install in the future, you can also [create a](https://openclassrooms.com/en/courses/6900846-set-up-a-python-environment/6990546-manage-virtual-environments-using-requirements-files) <file>requirements.txt</file> file with a list of all the packages you need and then install the requirements for your client application by running `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`.
```

At this point it's an alternative. the previous line kind of addressed what to do if they had more requirements. This is something for convenience. So we can explain that or just say "You can also..."

Author: Done

## Setup your IDE

> Now, point your IDE to use the python interpreter of your new environment, rather than the default interpreter, likely the global python interpreter.

Author: Ok this is good with me! Done!

The following steps are for VS Code.
If you're not using VS Code, please read your IDE's documentation on selecting python interpreters.

1. Open the `viam-python` directory in VS Code
1. Open the Command Palette (using `⇧⌘P` or through the menus View -> Command Palette)
1. Select the command `Python: Select Interpreter`.
There, you should see all the interpreters available to you.
You're looking for the on you just made: `viam-env`.
It will look something like: `Python 3.XX.X ('viam-env': venv) ./viam-env/bin/python`.
If you don't see it, click the `Refresh` icon on the top right of the Command Palette.
Select the `viam-env` interpreter.

Your IDE will now recognize all packages installed in this environment.

## Start building

> You are now ready to start using Viam's Python SDK!

Author: ```suggestion
You are now ready to [start using Viam's Python SDK](/program/)!
```

---
title: "Prepare your Python Virtual Environment"

> linkTitle: "Prepare your Python Virtualenv for Viam"

Reviewer: This is quite long in the side nav and also kind of feels odd with that position. It should be the first item, since it's the first thing a user does?

Author: Moved up weight

Reviewer: ```suggestion
linkTitle: "Prepare Virtualenv"
```

> weight: 50

Author: ```suggestion
weight: 10
```

type: "docs"

> description: "Prepare your Python Virtual Environment to program robots with the Python SDK."

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Prepare your Python Virtual Environment to program machines with the Python SDK."
```

images: ["/services/icons/sdk.svg"]
tags: ["client", "sdk", "application", "sdk", "fleet", "program", "python", "venv"]
---

> To manage Python packages for your Viam application, you should use a virtual environment, or `venv`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To manage Python packages for your Viam application, it is recommended that you use a virtual environment, or `venv`.
```

Author: Lgtm, done!

> By using a `venv`, you can install Python packages just within the virtual environment, and not globally, which could mess with other projects or cause issues within your system.

Author: ```suggestion
By using a `venv`, you can install Python packages like Viam's client SDK just within the virtual environment, and not globally, which could mess with other projects or cause issues within your system.
```

> By using a `venv`, you can install Python packages like Viam's client SDK just within the virtual environment, and not globally, which could mess with other projects or cause issues within your system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By using a `venv`, you can install Python packages like Viam's client SDK just within the virtual environment, and not globally, which could cause conflicts with other projects or cause issues within your system.
```

Author: Thank you, looks better! Done

> Follow this guide to set up a fresh virtual environment and install the Python SDK as a requirement for your application.

Author: ```suggestion
Follow this guide to set up a fresh virtual environment on your working computer and install the Python SDK as a requirement for your application.
```

> Follow this guide to set up a fresh virtual environment on your working computer and install the Python SDK as a requirement for your application.

Author: ```suggestion
Follow this guide to set up a fresh virtual environment on your working computer and install the Python SDK as a requirement for your Viam client application.
```

## Setup your project

> First, create a directory to house your project.

Reviewer: that might be a bit of an anthropomorphisation we can get rid of for readability:
```suggestion
First, create a directory for your project.
```

For example, name your directory `viam-python`:

> ```bash

Reviewer: (for all of these)

mkdir viam-python
cd viam-python
```

## Create a Virtual Environment

Now that you are in the project directory, create and activate a virtual environment for Python to run in.

> **INFO**

> > Creating a virtual environment (`venv`) is important as it isolates this python environment from any other you might already have.

Reviewer: We currently don't have this type of styling in our style guide, while we can add it we'd need to discuss that as a team first. 

Let's stick with an alert until then

Reviewer: However, this also duplicates the info above. in the first paragraph on the page. I think we should not duplicate that.

This allows you to ensure a clean project and easier dependency management, as well as not bloating your global python environment.

```bash
python3 -m venv viam-env
source viam-env/bin/activate
```

> Now, you should see `(viam-env)` prepend the commands in your terminal window.

Reviewer: Remove conditional

> Now, you should see `(viam-env)` prepend the commands in your terminal window.

Author: ```suggestion
Now, watch `(viam-env)` prepend the commands in your terminal window.
```

> This shows that the python packages being used are from this particular environment.

Reviewer: try remove passive voice

You can exit this environment by running `deactivate`.

## Install Viam

Inside the activated `viam-env` python environment, you can now install the Viam SDK:

```bash
pip3 install viam-sdk
```

This will install Viam and all required dependencies.

Should you need to install your own requirements, be sure to do so in this virtual environment.

> You can [make a](https://openclassrooms.com/en/courses/6900846-set-up-a-python-environment/6990546-manage-virtual-environments-using-requirements-files) <file>requirements.txt</file> and include all necessary packages within, then install the requirements for your client application using `pip install -r requirements.txt`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can [create a](https://openclassrooms.com/en/courses/6900846-set-up-a-python-environment/6990546-manage-virtual-environments-using-requirements-files) <file>requirements.txt</file> with all the packages you need and then install the requirements for your client application by running `pip install -r requirements.txt`.
```

## Setup your IDE

> You'll now want to point your IDE to use the python interpreter of your new environment, rather than the default interpreter, likely the global python interpreter.

Reviewer: avoid future tense - instead explain why they want that "If you awnt to ... then"

The following steps are for VS Code.
If you're not using VS Code, please read your IDE's documentation on selecting python interpreters.

1. Open the `viam-python` directory in VS Code
1. Open the Command Palette (using `⇧⌘P` or through the menus View -> Command Palette)
1. Select the command `Python: Select Interpreter`.
There, you should see all the interpreters available to you.

> You're looking for one the on you just made: `viam-env`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You're looking for the on you just made: `viam-env`.
```

Author: Done

> It will look something like: `Python 3.11.5 ('viam-env': venv) ./viam-env/bin/python`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will look something like: `Python 3.XX.X ('viam-env': venv) ./viam-env/bin/python`.
```
Let's directly make this timeless so that people can't tell that these docs are aging

If you don't see it, click the `Refresh` icon on the top right of the Command Palette.

> Your IDE will now recognize all packages installed in this environment.

Reviewer: You don't need to select it?

Author: Will edit copy!

Author: Maybe some of this feedback should go into the initial document as well, I can't make a pr on it though

Author: Put note to select

## Start building

> You are now ready to start using Viam's Python SDK!

Reviewer: This should instead point the user to the next step. Probably back to the /program page where they can get the code sample
